# Configure User

Via the user search, people with user administration rights can search for
people and make further configurations. For example, the person found can be
sent an e-mail, certain user attributes or their status can be changed or the
user can be completely deleted. The user attributes include name, password,
institution, etc. By status is meant whether the account is active, inactive
or locked, or similar.

The following tabs are available for user configuration:

#### User profile

| The personal data, personal details, contact data and details of the
institution are entered here (cf. user configuration
[profile](Configuration.html#Configuration-_profile)). Furthermore, the
personal information entered by the user as well as the respective business
card and the selected personal picture/photo are visible. The binding entries
of the user profile include: First name, surname and e-mail.  
---|---  
  
#### System settings

| The system settings made by the user are displayed here (see User
Configuration [Settings](Configuration.html#Configuration-_einstellungen)).  
  
#### Change password

| Here a new password can be set directly for the user or a password link can
be generated, which is then sent to the user by mail, so that he can set a new
password himself. The section "Send password link for OpenOlat password" is
only displayed if the user is allowed to change the password.  
  
#### Authentifications

| Here you can change the user name and edit and delete authentications.  
  
#### Properties

| User Properties can be displayed and exported as a table.  
  
#### Groups

| Overview of the groups in which the user is a participant or coach. At this
point the user can be assigned to certain groups.  
  
#### Learning resources

|

This tab generates an overview with all learning resources of the user. User
administrators and administrators can remove users from the respective
learning resources and call up the respective learning resources.
Furthermore, the user can be registered as owner, coach or participant in
further OpenOlat courses.  
  
#### Booking

|

The bookings of the user are displayed here.  
  
#### Statements

| The efficiency statements of a user are displayed here and can also be
deleted if required.  
  
#### Compensation for disadvantages

|

Here a disadvantage compensation can be added. The disadvantage compensation
entitles participants of a test to use more time for a test due to a certain
handicap.

![](assets/disadvantage_compensation.jpg)  
  
#### Subscriptions

| All subscriptions of a user are displayed here. These can also be deleted
here.  
  
#### Roles

| In this tab the user type, the roles and the status are defined, see
"[Assign roles](Assign+roles.html)".  
  
#### Relations

| In this tab, new relationships between the selected user and other OpenOlat
users can be defined (see [User Roles](User+management.html)).  
  
#### Quota

| Overview of the quota settings  
  
#### Lectures

| Overview of the status of lectures and absences and the associated progress
of the user  
  
#### Competences

| Here you can add competence areas according to the categories Manage, Teach,
Have and Target.  
  
#### Curriculum

| Overview of assigned curricula  
  
#### Grading assignments

| Overview of the assigned correction orders for tests

