#  [Modules: Document pool](Modules%EF%B9%95+Document+pool.html)

What is the document pool?

The document pool is a taxonomy based document management which can be
unlocked competence based. For example the resource management of learning
material based on the teach competence can be built.

The document pool can be activated for all OpenOlat users, also for learners.

The documents in the document pool are only available in the document pool and
cannot be added into a course.

Further information can be found in the chapter
[Taxonomy](Modules%EF%B9%95+Taxonomy.html).

The document pool can be added as a site in the main navigation on top.

![](../../download/attachments/590936/documentpool_structure.png)

## Tab Document pool

In the tab "Document pool" the document pool can be activated. In the main
navigation it becomes only visible if the corresponding site is activated.

Afterward the name shown for the WebDAV access can be defined here. Then a
taxonomy must be chosen. The content of the taxonomy is defined in Modules →
Taxonomy.

Additionally templates can be activated. The templates are shown in the
document pool directly below the main navigation. There only system
administrators can upload file. They are available for everybody, independent
of the access rights in the document pool.

![](../../download/attachments/590936/documentpool_documentpool.png)

## Tab Access permission

Here the rights of the single level types of the taxonomy can be defined. In
order that a competence type appears it must have been created in Modules →
Taxonomy in the tab level types.

  * Use in document pool: With this options it is defined if this competence type appears in the document pool.
  * Documents enabled: Only if this option is activated files can be uploaded on this level. Otherwise this level is only shown as structure without folder content.
  * Manager competence: Is not yet used. 
  * Teacher competence: In the teacher competence the access rights of the single levels of the document pool can be defined. First it is selected if a user with teach competence has read access to this level. If yes, the users can read the content of this level. Furthermore it can be defined if the read access is also valid on the other elements of the same hierarchical level. Therefore 1 instead of 0 need to be inserted.  
If additionally "Allow write access" is selected, the users can also upload
documents.

  * Have competence: Is not yet used.
  * Target competence: Is not yet used.

These settings need to be repeated for all defined competence types.

Additionally the corresponding competence need to be added to the users. This
happens either by the synchronization of an external management system or
directly in OpenOlat. In OpenOlat this can be done either in the user
management or in Administration → Modules → Taxonomy.

![](../../download/attachments/590936/documentpool_ap.png)

## Tab Info page

Finally an info page can be designed. It appears on the top level of the
document pool. It is recommended to add here a user manual for the usage of
the document pool.

![](../../download/attachments/590936/documentpool_info_page.png)

  1. [OpenOlat 16.1 User Manual](../OO161EN.html)
  2. [Seiten](https://confluence.openolat.org/collector/pages.action?key=OO161EN)
  3. **…**
  4. [OpenOlat 16.1 User Manual](OpenOLAT+16.1+User+Manual.html)
  5. [Administration](Administration.html)
  6. [Modules](Modules.html)
  7. [Modules: Document pool](Modules%EF%B9%95+Document+pool.html)

Sie sind nicht angemeldet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit anonym markiert. Sie
sollten sich
[anmelden](https://confluence.openolat.org/login.action?os_destination=%2Fdisplay%2FOO161EN%2FModules%253A%2BDocument%2Bpool),
wenn Sie bereits über ein Konto verfügen.

search

attachments

weblink

advanced

image-effects

image-attributes

  * Absatz
    * Absatz
    * Überschrift 1
    * Überschrift 2
    * Überschrift 3
    * Überschrift 4
    * Überschrift 5
    * Überschrift 6
    * Vorformatiert
    * Zitat

  * Fett
  * Kursiv
  * Unterstreichen
  * Farbauswahl

Weitere Farben

    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  

  * Formate

    * Durchgestrichen 
    * Tiefgestellt 
    * Hochgestellt 
    * Festbreitenschriftart 

    * Formatierung zurücksetzen 

  * Aufzählung
  * Nummerierte Liste

  * Aufgabenliste

  * Einzug verkleinern
  * Einzug vergrößern

  * Linksbündig ausrichten
  * Zentriert ausrichten
  * Rechtsbündig ausrichten

  * Seitenlayout

  * Verknüpfung

  * Tabelle

  * Einfügen

Inhalt einfügen

    * Dateien und Bilder 
    * Verknüpfung 
    * Markup 
    * Horizontale Trennlinie einfügen 
    * Aufgabenliste 
    * Datum 
    * Emoticon 
    * Sonderzeichen 
Makro einfügen

    * Benutzererwähnung 
    * Jira-Vorgang/-Filter 
    * Info 
    * Status 
    * Galerie 
    * Inhalt 

    * Andere Makros 

  * Seitenlayout
    * Kein Layout
    * Zweispaltig (einfach)
    * Zweispaltig (einfach, linke Randleiste)
    * Zweispaltig (einfach, rechte Randleiste)
    * Dreispaltig (einfach)
    * Zweispaltig
    * Zweispaltig (linke Randleiste)
    * Zweispaltig (rechte Randleiste)
    * Dreispaltig
    * Dreispaltig (Randleisten links und rechts)

  * Rückgängig
  * Wiederholen

  * Suchen/Ersetzen

  * Hilfe für Tastenkombinationen

Sie sind nicht angemeldet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit anonym markiert. Sie
sollten sich
[anmelden](https://confluence.openolat.org/login.action?os_destination=%2Fdisplay%2FOO161EN%2FModules%253A%2BDocument%2Bpool),
wenn Sie bereits über ein Konto verfügen.

Diese Seite wird auch von  bearbeitet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit seinen/ihren
zusammengeführt, wenn Sie speichern.



Bearbeiten

Vorschau

Speichern

Schließen

