# Modules

  * [Instant-Messaging](Instant_Messaging.md)
  * Video
  * [Contact tracing](Modules_Contact_Tracing.md)
  * Wiki
  * Course reminders
  * [Audio/video recording](Modules_Audio_Video_Recording.md)
  * COVID certificate
  * [Document pool](Modules_Document_pool.md)
  * Live stream
  * [Taxonomy](Modules_Taxonomy.md)
  * Semester terms
  * Media Center
  * Privacy
  * Bookings
  * Group
  * [Lectures](Lecture_and_roll_call_management.md)
  * Library
  * Forum
  * Course
  * [Catalog](Modules_Catalog_2.0.md)
  * [Repository](Modules_Repository.md)
  * [Organisations](Modules_Organisations.md)
  * Role user to user
  * Request account deletion
  * [Curriculum](Modules_Curriculum.md)
  * [Projects](Modules_Projects.md)
  * Quality management
  * [SEO / OATI-PMH metadata](Modules_OAI.md) 

## Video 
Hier können die Lernressource Video und der Kursbaustein Video aktiviert werden. Auch Angaben zum Transkodierung sowie die Standardauflösung können definiert werden.   

## Wiki

 **Block Wiki resource** : Wiki configuration: Disable the option "Enable Wiki
resource" to block the Wiki system-wide. The Wiki component is currently still
vulnerable to cross-site scripting attacks (XSS). Therefore the XSS scanner
can be activated additionally. This can lead to impairments in the Wiki
functionality in OpenOlat. If the XSS scanner is switched off, the Wiki can be
used with the risk of an XSS attack. However, the Wiki component has automatic
versioning, which makes it difficult for attackers to remain undetected.

## Kurserinnerungen 

Aktivierung der Kurserinnerungen und Einstellung der Versandhäufigkeit. 

## Audio/Video-Aufnahme

Aktivierung der Video-Aufnahme Möglichkeit an verschiedenen Stellen in OpenOlat. Auch ein lokales Transcoding kann aktiviert werden. 

## Covid-Zertifikat

Aktivierung des COVID-Zertifikats mit weiteren Einstellungen wie Gültigkeitsdauer, Erinnerungseinstellungen, Scan-Einstellungen für das Zertifikat.

## Livestream

## Semester dates

Create and manage semester dates to be able to refer to a semester designation
instead of a date for course durations. The semester data created here can be
used when configuring the execution period of a course in learning resource
management. For example, "SoSe23" could be used as the designation and "Summer
semester 2023" as the name.

## Medien Center

Hier kann definiert ob bzw. welche Taxonomie mit dem Medien Center verbunden werden sollen. 

## Datenschutz

## Buchungen

Anzeige aller Buchungen für eine Buchungsnummer in einem angegebenen Zeitraum

## Groups

Here you can define if course authors and learners are allowed to create new
groups. Possible rights for group administrators and learning resource
administrators in the group context can also be defined. In order to meet data
protection requirements, it can be defined whether an e-mail must be sent when
inviting users to courses and groups and whether the invitation results in
direct membership or must first be confirmed by the invited user.
Administrators can also purge course and group members here.

## Bibliothek

Aktivierung des Menüs "Bibliothek" und Wahl des zugehörigen Ressourcenordners.

## Forum

Administrators can define here if pseudonymous forum posts are allowed and
also define the appropriate default configuration for forums.

## Course

In the "Settings" tab, the default type for OpenOlat courses, learning path or
traditional course, can be defined. Settings for assessable course elements
can also be made here. In the tab "Didactic Types" new didactic types can be
defined and existing ones can be edited or deleted. Categories for color
categories with CSS classes and style images can also be added here.

## Rolle Person zu Person 

Aktivierung von Person zu Person und Definition von konkreten verbundenen Rollen z.B. Vorgesetzter und Mitarbeiter oder Lehrer und Schüler.

## Anfrage Konto löschen

Aktivierung und Angabe einer Mailadresse für die Löschanfrage.

## Qualitätsmanagement

Aktivierung und Definition von speziellen E-Mailadressen. 
