# Configuration

The configuration gives you access to the Profile, Settings and Password
menus.

  

  

## Profile

In the personal menu under the option "Profile" you can change your personal
data and set up your business card. Simply complete the fields provided.

Changes to the e-mail address will only be applied if the new e-mail address
is activated. For this purpose an activation link will be sent to the new
address after the change. You select the link or copy it into the address line
of your browser and log in to OpenOlat to activate the new e-mail address.
Until activation, the previous e-mail address is used in OpenOlat. If you do
not dial the activation link within two days (48 hours), the change request
expires. Please contact your administrator.

A phone number for sending SMS can be added in the contact data. If an SMS
service is stored with your system, the password can be reset with an SMS
authentication. For this purpose, a phone number must be stored here. The
number must be stored in the internationally valid format +41 12 345 67 89. A
mobile phone number is recommended. For fixed network numbers, the number is
called for verification and the code is read out.

In the "About me" section, you can enter some information about yourself as
free text if required.

It is also important for online learning that you add a photo of yourself to
your profile. This makes online learning more personal and online
communication and cooperation more pleasant and easier for everyone. The photo
stored in your profile appears in OpenOlat in various places, e.g. on your
business card, in forum posts or in the list of participants. OpenOlat will
crop the picture to a width of 100 pixels.

  

Some fields may not be changeable.

###  **Tab "My visiting card"**

With the help of the check boxes you can determine which entries appear on
your business card and can therefore be viewed by other OpenOlat users. Some
check boxes cannot be edited. These are predefined system-wide.

To view the business cards of other OpenOlat users, select Other users in the
personal menu and search for the desired person using the search mask.

##  Settings

The settings allow you to adapt OpenOlat according to your needs.

![](assets/Screenshot 2020-04-29 at 17.58.31.png)

### Tab System

#### General system settings:

Here you can read out your user name and your OpenOlat role. You can also
select your individual system language. OpenOlat has been translated into
numerous languages. Changing the language will only become active after the
next login.

  

The language of course content is not affected by the language selection here.

You can also set how often you want to receive email notifications. You can
choose between: switched off, monthly, weekly, daily, half-day, every four and
every two hours. You can also specify whether OpenOlat e-mails should only be
displayed in the inbox within the OpenOlat system, or whether they should also
be sent to the external e-mail address configured in your profile. In the
notification mail, you will also find a note regarding new e-mails within the
OpenOlat mailbox, if you have selected the option "Deliver e-mails to the
internal OpenOlat mailbox".

Via the "Character set for download" you can determine in which character set
files that you download via data archiving should be stored. This concerns the
download of test and questionnaire results as well as course results. The
default character set is ISO-8859-1. If your tests or questionnaires contain
e.g. Arabic characters you have to select the character set UTF-8.

In the Specific system settings you can view and change the settings that can
make your daily start and work with OpenOlat easier.

In the selection "Resume last session" you define what happens directly after
the login: Either

  * the start page is loaded,
  * the last place visited in OpenOlat is automatically loaded, or
  * you determine where you want to go after login, depending on the situation.

If you have selected the "Yes, automatically" setting, the field for entering
the start page is hidden. This field allows you to set any page within
OpenOlat as your personal start page and thus overwrite the system-wide start
page. Page-specific links can be found in the Social Sharing bar at the bottom
left under "Copy link". It is even easier to simply click on the start page
icon on the desired start page. Any OpenOlat page you have access to can be
selected for this purpose.

![](assets/change_startpage_EN.png)

  

**User tools:**  Here you select which user tools should appear in the top
right-hand corner of the menu bar (next to your profile picture) so that you
can access these tools very quickly.

![](assets/Screenshot 2020-04-29 at 18.11.30.png)

Tools that are not available as quick access in the navigation bar are
available as menu items in the personal menu. Use Help to get to the start
page of the user manual and Print to print the currently opened page.

Do not try to activate all tools, but select the tools you use frequently.
This keeps the menu bar clear.

  

Finally, under "Settings" in the "System" tab, you have the option of
**resetting** your system-related changes **to the  ** **default settings** ,
including settings for personalization, notifications and session restore.

###  **Tab WebDAV**

The tab "WebDAV" provides you with the [WebDAV link to your OpenOlat
system](../supported_tech/Using_WebDAV.md), which can be used to conveniently manage files. As
an OpenOlat user, you can access your personal folder via WebDAV. OpenOlat
authors can organize their entire course files via WebDAV.

### Tab Instant-Messaging

In the tab "Instant Messaging" you define the settings for the [chat
function](../../manual_admin/administration/Instant_Messaging.de.md) and your communication status after login.

![](assets/Screenshot 2020-04-29 at 18.34.37.png)

### Tab Terms of use

Here you can read the terms of use, which you confirmed the first time you
logged in. The exact terms of use will be determined by the OLAT
administrator.

Furthermore you can request the deletion of your complete OpenOlat account.  

![](assets/terms_of_use.jpg)

### Tab User data

In this section you can request an overview of your data stored in OpenOlat
from the operator, in accordance with Article 15 GDPR. The corresponding
support link is available. As soon as the export has been carried out, you can
download the user data stored about you here.

![](assets/Screenshot 2020-04-29 at 18.26.01.png)

##  Password

![](assets/Screenshot 2020-04-29 at 18.26.26.png)

If your account is not controlled by an external user management system, you
can change your password in the "Password" menu. Depending on the settings,
the administrator can also force a new password to be assigned at certain
intervals. When assigning a new password, make sure not to use the old
password again. Depending on settings by your OLAT administrator the use of
previous passwords might not be allowed.

If you have forgotten your password you can request a new one on the login
page. The activation link will then be sent to you by e-mail. If SMS
authentication is possible in your system and you have activated it the
activation code can also be sent by SMS.

  

