#  [Course element Adobe Connect](Course+element+Adobe+Connect.html)

**Type of software**|  Commercial, license and server hosting required  
---|---  
 **Tool-specific**|

By default, course owners and coaches are Adobe Connect administrators and
participants are Connect participants with no other rights.

In the Connect room, various elements (pods) are available, which can be
combined with each other and organized in "layouts". For example, presentation
files can be uploaded and an event recording can be activated. Both the
uploaded presentation files and the recordings are visible in OpenOlat for
course owners and supervisors and can be made available to course participants
in full or in part.

![](../../download/attachments/108600768/AC_Files_EN.png)  
  
 **Configuration in the course editor**|  Here the configuration tab is
available for further settings.  
 **Configuration in the course run (closed editor)**|

After the course element has been added, a meeting room must be created in the
tab "Configuration" via the button "Add Meeting". Then the following dialog
appears:

![](../../download/attachments/108600768/AC_Anlegen_EN.png)

Under the entered title the room is displayed in the meeting area. The
description becomes visible after you have selected the room.

If available, you can use a template provided by the hosting server or "No
template". Also define whether the room should be available permanently or
only at a certain date. For a time-bound room, you can add a lead time and a
follow-up time.

Irrespective of the room configuration, access to the course element of the
virtual classroom can also be configured like all other course elements via
the Visibility and Access tabs in the course editor.

  

A built-in Adobe Connect course element can contain multiple differently
configured meeting rooms. Depending on the configuration in the OpenOlat
Administration, all meetings set up run in the same or different Adobe Connect
rooms.

In the "Meetings" tab, the overview of the virtual rooms set up is displayed
in the same way as they are visible to participants. Scheduled meetings are
marked accordingly.

![](../../download/attachments/108600768/AC_overview_EN.png)

"Select" takes you to the corresponding virtual classroom. At the first call
you have to "register" for the meeting and afterwards you have the possibility
to join the meeting via another dialog window. With "Join Meeting" you enter
the virtual classroom and all room specific tools are available.  
  
 **Link to further information**|

Adobe Connect Provider Website:
<https://www.adobe.com/de/products/adobeconnect.html> .

Since many universities in Germany use the [DFN
server](https://www.conf.dfn.de/webkonferenzdienst-ueber-adobe-connect/) for
Adobe Connect, the corresponding information can also be interesting.  
  
  1. [OpenOlat 16.1 User Manual](../OO161EN.html)
  2. [Seiten](https://confluence.openolat.org/collector/pages.action?key=OO161EN)
  3. **…**
  4. [OpenOlat 16.1 User Manual](OpenOLAT+16.1+User+Manual.html)
  5. [Types of Course Element](Types+of+Course+Element.html)
  6. [Communication and Collaboration](Communication+and+Collaboration.html)
  7. [Virtual classrooms](Virtual+classrooms.html)
  8. [Course element Adobe Connect](Course+element+Adobe+Connect.html)

Sie sind nicht angemeldet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit anonym markiert. Sie
sollten sich
[anmelden](https://confluence.openolat.org/login.action?os_destination=%2Fdisplay%2FOO161EN%2FCourse%2Belement%2BAdobe%2BConnect),
wenn Sie bereits über ein Konto verfügen.

search

attachments

weblink

advanced

image-effects

image-attributes

  * Absatz
    * Absatz
    * Überschrift 1
    * Überschrift 2
    * Überschrift 3
    * Überschrift 4
    * Überschrift 5
    * Überschrift 6
    * Vorformatiert
    * Zitat

  * Fett
  * Kursiv
  * Unterstreichen
  * Farbauswahl

Weitere Farben

    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  

  * Formate

    * Durchgestrichen 
    * Tiefgestellt 
    * Hochgestellt 
    * Festbreitenschriftart 

    * Formatierung zurücksetzen 

  * Aufzählung
  * Nummerierte Liste

  * Aufgabenliste

  * Einzug verkleinern
  * Einzug vergrößern

  * Linksbündig ausrichten
  * Zentriert ausrichten
  * Rechtsbündig ausrichten

  * Seitenlayout

  * Verknüpfung

  * Tabelle

  * Einfügen

Inhalt einfügen

    * Dateien und Bilder 
    * Verknüpfung 
    * Markup 
    * Horizontale Trennlinie einfügen 
    * Aufgabenliste 
    * Datum 
    * Emoticon 
    * Sonderzeichen 
Makro einfügen

    * Benutzererwähnung 
    * Jira-Vorgang/-Filter 
    * Info 
    * Status 
    * Galerie 
    * Inhalt 

    * Andere Makros 

  * Seitenlayout
    * Kein Layout
    * Zweispaltig (einfach)
    * Zweispaltig (einfach, linke Randleiste)
    * Zweispaltig (einfach, rechte Randleiste)
    * Dreispaltig (einfach)
    * Zweispaltig
    * Zweispaltig (linke Randleiste)
    * Zweispaltig (rechte Randleiste)
    * Dreispaltig
    * Dreispaltig (Randleisten links und rechts)

  * Rückgängig
  * Wiederholen

  * Suchen/Ersetzen

  * Hilfe für Tastenkombinationen

Sie sind nicht angemeldet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit anonym markiert. Sie
sollten sich
[anmelden](https://confluence.openolat.org/login.action?os_destination=%2Fdisplay%2FOO161EN%2FCourse%2Belement%2BAdobe%2BConnect),
wenn Sie bereits über ein Konto verfügen.

Diese Seite wird auch von  bearbeitet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit seinen/ihren
zusammengeführt, wenn Sie speichern.



Bearbeiten

Vorschau

Speichern

Schließen

