#  [Course Element: card2brain
Flashcards](Course+Element%EF%B9%95+card2brain+Flashcards.html)

![](../../download/thumbnails/108600596/card2brain_434343_64%EF%B9%96version=1&modificationDate=1567435953000&api=v2.png)

To use this course element an enterprise login of card2brain is compulsory.
Clients of frentix please contact
[card2brain@](mailto:card2brain@frentix.com)[frentix.com](http://frentix.com)[.](mailto:contact@frentix.com.)
Non-clients please contact [card2brain](http://card2brain.ch/info/contact)
directly.

The course element card2brain allows learning with flashcards.

As soon as the pre-settings are done, the course element can be added as all
other course elements are added in OpenOlat. After title and description and
as required the visibility and the access have been adapted, the "Alias of
flashcards" need to be added in the tab Set of flashcards.

To add this alias, a set of flashcards need to be created at
[www.card2brain.ch](http://www.card2brain.ch) first. The flashcards cannot be
created in OpenOlat directly. The flashcard is connected into OpenOlat. As
soon as a set of flashcards is created, the alias can be taken from the
details. The alias is the last part of the weblink, e.g.
20170425_sea_geografie. Copy the alias and add it to OpenOlat. Afterward the
course element is saved.

![](../../download/attachments/108600596/card2brain_details_EN.png)

  

To make sure that the course participants are able to work with the course
element the following settings of the flashcard are relevant:

![](../../download/attachments/108600596/card2brain_settings_EN.png)

This setting can be done in OpenOlat. After publishing the course click on the
course element card2brain. Click then on Edit set of flashcards. In Sharing
throughout the organisation an organization is already chosen. It is added
during the creation of the set of flashcards in
[www.card2brain.ch](http://www.card2brain.ch) For teachers you choose Co-
author and for student Fellow learner. Thus all users who are coaches for this
course can edit the flashcards as well. And all course participants can learn
with the flashcards.

The flashcards are only for a learning purpose and not for a test. In OpenOlat
no score is saved and the course element card2brain is not assessable.

  

