#  [Lectures and absences](Lectures+and+absences.html)

Absence management allows you to keep attendance lists online and document
absences. Attendance monitoring is carried out for each course. For this
purpose, lecture blocks with 1-12 lessons can be created in the course. The
individual lessons make it possible for participants to miss individual
lessons from a lecture block and not have the entire lecture block entered as
absent.

The general settings are made system-wide in the
[administration](Lecture+and+roll+call+management.html). Furthermore, absence
management can generally be switched on or off by the OpenOlat administrator.

On this page you will find the course owner's view. Information on handling
for the [course coach](Lectures+-+Teacher+view.html) and the [course
participants](Lectures+-+User+view.html) can be found in the corresponding
chapters. The roll call is then carried out by individual instructors (course
coaches). If a course does not contain course coaches, the tool cannot be used
meaningfully.

# Course owner perspective

## Activate lectures management as course owner

In the "Administration" menu of the course, you can configure the lectures and
absence management in the "Settings" menu → tab "Execution" and accept or
change the default configuration.

![](../../download/attachments/108600585/Absenz_Config_EN.png)

Afterwards, the menu " Lectures and absences" appears under Course
Administration.

![](../../download/thumbnails/108600585/Absenz_menu_EN%EF%B9%96version=1&modificationDate=1564501133000&api=v2.png)

Here you can create lecture blocks, delete them and get an overview of the
attendance status of the participants and edit entries. The creation of these
lecture blocks is done in the course by the course owner (or is synchronized
into OpenOlat from an external administration system).

## Tab Lecture blocks

In the first tab "Lecture blocks" new lecture blocks can be created and
existing can be edited and deleted. A logfile can also be displayed.

With the button "Create new lecture block", a new block is created.

![](../../download/attachments/590041/Lektionen_erstellen.png)

### Create Lecture block

 **Title** : Assign a meaningful name.

 **Planned lectures** : Specifies how many lessons this lesson block contains.
A lecture block can contain 1 - 12 lessons.

 **Compulsory** : If attendance is mandatory, an attendance check must be
carried out. The lecture block is then also included in the attendance rate.
If the block is voluntary, it is not included in the attendance calculation.

 **Teacher** : A course coach must be selected for each lecture block. Only
the selected course coach can carry out the attendance check. If a course
owner also wants to take over this function, he/she must also register as a
course coach in the course.

 **Course / groups / curriculum** : Here you define for whom this block of
lectures is intended. Either for the whole course, for the corresponding
groups or a whole curriculum. For example, absence management can only be used
for a part of the course members.

 **Description** : Here you can optionally add a description for the lesson
block.

 **Preparation** : If you want to give the participants a preparation or
postprocessing order for the respective date, this can be added here. It is
displayed in the calendar if the lectures are synchronized with the course
calendar (setting in Administration).

 **Location** : Here you specify where this lecture block takes place. This
can be e.g. a presence place or the exact room description.

 **Date** : A date must be specified.

 **Time** : The time can be added optionally. However, the calendar entries
can only be displayed correctly with a time entry.

![](../../download/attachments/108600585/Lectureblock_create_EN.png)

## Tab Participants

![](../../download/attachments/108600585/Absenz_TN_EN.png)

In the tab "Participants" you get an overview of all participants of this
course or the selected groups. The total number of lectures recorded is
displayed, followed by the number of lectures the participant was present,
absent and, if necessary, excused for. The attendance is displayed graphically
in progress. Green symbolizes the presence, orange excused and red absent or
unexcused lessons. In the presence column, the attendance rate is calculated
for lectures that have already taken place. If, for example, only one lecture
has taken place and the participant was present, 100% is displayed in the
"Attendance" column.

The column with the symbol
![](../../download/thumbnails/108600585/attention_434343_64%EF%B9%96version=1&modificationDate=1564501133000&api=v2.png)
indicates whether the defined attendance rate has been reached. If a red
exclamation mark is displayed, the required limit has not been reached.

The column
![](../../download/thumbnails/108600585/infomessage%EF%B9%96version=1&modificationDate=1564501133000&api=v2.png)
displays information that deviates from the default setting. This is, for
example, a personal threshold value or a later course start. These two options
can be defined in the settings
![](../../download/thumbnails/108600585/test_pencil-square-
o_434343_64%EF%B9%96version=1&modificationDate=1564501133000&api=v2.png). The
personal threshold defines the attendance rate to be achieved for the relevant
participant. First admission defines when the participant started the course.
The attendance rate is calculated based on the first admission. Lectures that
took place before the date of first admission are not included.

  

  1. [OpenOlat 16.1 User Manual](../OO161EN.html)
  2. [Seiten](https://confluence.openolat.org/collector/pages.action?key=OO161EN)
  3. **…**
  4. [OpenOlat 16.1 User Manual](OpenOLAT+16.1+User+Manual.html)
  5. [Course Operation](Course+Operation.html)
  6. [Using Course Tools](Using+Course+Tools.html)
  7. [Lectures and absences](Lectures+and+absences.html)

Sie sind nicht angemeldet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit anonym markiert. Sie
sollten sich
[anmelden](https://confluence.openolat.org/login.action?os_destination=%2Fdisplay%2FOO161EN%2FLectures%2Band%2Babsences),
wenn Sie bereits über ein Konto verfügen.

search

attachments

weblink

advanced

image-effects

image-attributes

  * Absatz
    * Absatz
    * Überschrift 1
    * Überschrift 2
    * Überschrift 3
    * Überschrift 4
    * Überschrift 5
    * Überschrift 6
    * Vorformatiert
    * Zitat

  * Fett
  * Kursiv
  * Unterstreichen
  * Farbauswahl

Weitere Farben

    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  

  * Formate

    * Durchgestrichen 
    * Tiefgestellt 
    * Hochgestellt 
    * Festbreitenschriftart 

    * Formatierung zurücksetzen 

  * Aufzählung
  * Nummerierte Liste

  * Aufgabenliste

  * Einzug verkleinern
  * Einzug vergrößern

  * Linksbündig ausrichten
  * Zentriert ausrichten
  * Rechtsbündig ausrichten

  * Seitenlayout

  * Verknüpfung

  * Tabelle

  * Einfügen

Inhalt einfügen

    * Dateien und Bilder 
    * Verknüpfung 
    * Markup 
    * Horizontale Trennlinie einfügen 
    * Aufgabenliste 
    * Datum 
    * Emoticon 
    * Sonderzeichen 
Makro einfügen

    * Benutzererwähnung 
    * Jira-Vorgang/-Filter 
    * Info 
    * Status 
    * Galerie 
    * Inhalt 

    * Andere Makros 

  * Seitenlayout
    * Kein Layout
    * Zweispaltig (einfach)
    * Zweispaltig (einfach, linke Randleiste)
    * Zweispaltig (einfach, rechte Randleiste)
    * Dreispaltig (einfach)
    * Zweispaltig
    * Zweispaltig (linke Randleiste)
    * Zweispaltig (rechte Randleiste)
    * Dreispaltig
    * Dreispaltig (Randleisten links und rechts)

  * Rückgängig
  * Wiederholen

  * Suchen/Ersetzen

  * Hilfe für Tastenkombinationen

Sie sind nicht angemeldet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit anonym markiert. Sie
sollten sich
[anmelden](https://confluence.openolat.org/login.action?os_destination=%2Fdisplay%2FOO161EN%2FLectures%2Band%2Babsences),
wenn Sie bereits über ein Konto verfügen.

Diese Seite wird auch von  bearbeitet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit seinen/ihren
zusammengeführt, wenn Sie speichern.



Bearbeiten

Vorschau

Speichern

Schließen

