#  [Old Questionnaire Editor QTI 1.2](Old+Questionnaire+Editor+QTI+1.2.html)

The support of the old QTI 1.2 questionnaires was terminated with OpenOLAT 15.

Old questionnaires in QTI 1.2 format can no longer be added to a course, can
no longer be used independently of a course, and can no longer be displayed
normally.

If you still have old questionnaires that you need, you have to create the
questionnaires completely new. To do this, create a new learning resource
"Questionnaire". Old questionnaires cannot be converted!

Tip: Via "Edit questionnaire" you can navigate to the individual questions
again and save the questions and answers via copy+paste.

Converting QTI 1.2 questionnaires to QTI 2.1 format does not make sense,
because the current OpenOlat questionnaire is independent of the QTI 2.1
standard. The conversion is only useful and intended for converting QTI tests
that were handled together in the old version.

  

Information on the current form editor for can be found
[here](../../pages/viewpage.action%EF%B9%96pageId=108600747.html).

## QTI 1.2 Editor - Types of Questions

There are five different types of questions in QTI 1.2  to be explained in the
following. Information on the creation of a question type can be found in the
respective question type row. Settings concerned with scores or assessment do
not apply for the questionnaire.

Type of Question| Description| Example  
---|---|---  
  
Single
Choice![](../../download/thumbnails/590039/scItem%EF%B9%96version=2&modificationDate=1417005533000&api=v2.png)

|

A single-choice question comprises a question and at least two answers; only
one of them can be selected. In a test only one of those two answers is
correct.

 Create Single Choice question

Please click on the editor icon
![](../../download/thumbnails/590039/test%EF%B9%96version=2&modificationDate=1417005538000&api=v2.png)
in the column _Actions_ in order to edit a question or answer text.

Additional answers can be generated by means of the button "Add new answer"
_._ You determine your correct answer by highlighting the column _Correct_ at
the relevant position.  
The answers' order can be altered by means of the arrow icons in the column
_Pos_.

 **Score** Please indicate the number of points for a correct answer.

|

![](../../download/attachments/590936/scitem.gif)  
  
Multiple-
Choice![](../../download/thumbnails/590039/mcItem%EF%B9%96version=2&modificationDate=1417005528000&api=v2.png)

|

A multiple-choice question comprises one question and at least two answers;
several answers can be selected. In a test several answers can be correct.

 Create Multiple Choice question

Please click on the editor icon
![](../../download/thumbnails/590039/test%EF%B9%96version=2&modificationDate=1417005538000&api=v2.png)
in the column _Actions_ in order to edit a question or answer text.

Additional answers can be generated by means of the button "Add new answer"
_._ You determine your correct answers by highlighting the column _Correct_ at
the relevant position.  
The answers' order can be altered by means of the arrow icons in the column
_Pos_.

 **Method of assessment:** By selecting _«All correct answers»_ points will
only be distributed if all answers are correct. Please indicate your score in
the field **Score by means of assessment method _All correct answers_**. If
you select and save _«Score per answer»_ the column _Score_ will appear.
Please enter the number of points per answer.

 **Minimum score:** Please enter a minimum score, e.g. if you want to avoid a
negative number of points.

 **Maximum score:** Please enter the maximum score for this question.

|

![](../../download/attachments/590936/mcitem.gif)  
  
Kprim![](../../download/thumbnails/590039/kprimItem%EF%B9%96version=2&modificationDate=1417005526000&api=v2.png)

|

A Kprim question can only be used in a test. It comprises one answer and
exactly four answers. The one taking that test has to decide for every single
answer if it is correct or not. 0 to 4 answers can be correct.

 Create Kprim question

Please click on the editor icon
![](../../download/thumbnails/590039/test%EF%B9%96version=2&modificationDate=1417005538000&api=v2.png)
in the column _Actions_ in order to edit a question or answer text.

You determine your correct answers by highlighting the column _Correct_ at the
relevant position.  
The answers' order can be altered by means of the arrow icons in the column
_Pos_.

 **Maximum score:** Please enter the maximum score for this question.

|

![](../../download/attachments/590936/kprimitem.gif)  
  
Cloze![](../../download/thumbnails/590039/fibItem%EF%B9%96version=2&modificationDate=1417005519000&api=v2.png)

|

In a cloze question terms are replaced by gaps to be filled in by the one
taking the test or questionnaire. In a test you provide the correct answers
(synonyms separated by semicolons) and decide at the same time if there should
be case sensitivity or not.

 Create Cloze question

Please click on the editor icon
![](../../download/thumbnails/590039/test%EF%B9%96version=2&modificationDate=1417005538000&api=v2.png)
in the column _Actions_ in order to edit a question or answer text.

You can include gaps and other text elements by clicking on the buttons "Add
new text fragment _"_ or "Add new blank". Please write the correct answer into
the gap. You can define the gap's size (column _Gap size_ ) and limit the
number of characters per gap (column _Number of characters_ ).

In questionnaires there are no limitations as regards to gap sizes!

You can further determine whether the answer's capitalization should be
considered or not (column _Capitalization)._  
Please enter synonyms for correct answers into the same gap; options should be
separated by a semicolon (e.g. university; University).

The answers' order can be altered by means of the arrow icons in the column
_Pos_.

 **Method of assessment:** By selecting _«All correct answers»_ points will
only be distributed if all answers are correct. Please indicate your score in
the field **Score by means of assessment method _All correct answers_**.  
If you select and save _«Score per answer»_ the column _Score_ will appear.
Please enter the number of points per answer.

 **Minimum score:** Please enter a minimum score, e.g. if you want to avoid a
negative number of points.

 **Maximum score:** Please enter the maximum score for this question.

|

![](../../download/attachments/590936/fibitem.gif)  
  
Free text
![](../../download/thumbnails/590039/essayItem%EF%B9%96version=2&modificationDate=1417005518000&api=v2.png)

|

The answer to a free-text question is inserted into a field of variable size.
In a test environment, the free-text question must be evaluated separately and
manually.

 Create Free text question

Please click on the editor icon
![](../../download/thumbnails/590039/test%EF%B9%96version=2&modificationDate=1417005538000&api=v2.png)
in the column _Actions_ in order to the question text.

Indicate the **Width** (number of letters per line) and **Height** (number of
lines) of the answer field provided for students. You define the maximum
length of the answer through those values.

 **Score** Please indicate the number of points for a correct answer.

The essay has to be corrected manually and the final score after the test does
not reflect the correction of the essay type and might need to be adjusted
manually later.

|

![](../../download/attachments/590936/essayitem.gif)  
  
  

## Structuring and Organization

Each test and each questionnaire has to comprise at least one section as well
as one question. This is why there is already a section ("New section") along
with a single-choice question ("New question") when creating a test or
questionnaire. If you do not need a single-choice question in your test you
can delete it as soon as you have added another type of question. Just click
on the title of a section or question on your left to be able to modify it.

Sections serve to give your tests or questionnaires a certain structure. For
example you can pose general questions at the beginning and therefore create a
section "Preface." Your test or questionnaire can contain as many sections as
you like.

If you want to add a new section or question just navigate to the position of
your choice and select in the drop-down menu "Add" in the toolbar the new
element. You can also add one or more questions directly from the [question
bank ](Question+Bank.html)or via [Excel-
Import](Data+Management.html#DataManagement-qb_import) into your test or
questionnaire. Just navigate to the corresponding menu item. It is possible to
delete or move sections or questions anytime. You can even copy questions.

It is advisable to copy questions if there are questions with the same
possibilities to answer, e.g. if several questions could be answered by
selecting a value between 1 and 5.

  

## Display Options and Configuration

Further options regarding tests and questionnaires can be set at different
levels. The respective titles may contain numerals and symbols (exception: >,
< ″, &). You can limit the time span for solving the entire test, a section or
a single question (min and sec).

### On the test level...

you provide your test with a title that will then appear in the navigation.
Optionally, you can further add a description, which will appear when starting
the Test or Questionnaire.

Determine whether all included test **sections** should be displayed or just a
selection. In addition to that, sections can be displayed randomly or in the
predefined order.

#### The following settings only apply to the test editor:

You can also determine if a test should be taken within a certain period of
time. If a test has some **time limit** this can be recognized by the
hourglass icon and the display of total time and time ending.

You can determine whether you want a display of solutions for each question
and a **feedback** during the test. Enter feedback, hints, and correct answers
corresponding to your questions. Options regarding feedback and solutions will
be explained in the section "Hints to Solutions and Feedback in a Test".

In the **Necessary passing score** row, you can determine the necessary score
in order to pass the entire test.

Attention: This score does only matter if your test is part of a course by
means of the course element _Test_.

Further information regarding scores can be found in "Scores in Tests".

### On the section level...

... you can optionally describe your section further. This description will
appear when activating the section.

You determine if there should be a **time limit** when working on a section,
how many questions from that section should appear in your test or
questionnaire, and if the sequence of your questions should be at random or
not. If you have limited the **amount of this section's questions** , those
questions as well as their **order** will be selected at random. If all
questions are displayed, you can determine whether your questions should be
selected at random ( _«Random order»_ ) or whether they should appear
according to the test editor's order ( _«Fixed order»_ ).

You can only add a time limit to a test, but not to a questionnaire.

###  On the question level...

... you can optionally describe your question further. This description will
appear when activating that question. The settings

  * number of attempts
  * time limit
  * order of answers
  * hints
  * correct solution

are available for the test, but not the questionnaire.

For _Single Choice_ and _Multiple Choice_ questions, please define if the
question's  **Alignment of answers** should be _«Horizontally»_ or
_«Vertically»_.

 _All question types except free text_ can have a **limited number of
attempts**. Please define how often this question may be answered. By not
checking this box your question can be accessed and answered any number of
times.

You can add **time limits** for solving _all question types_ (min and sec).
Please mind further time limits (Section, Test) you may have set before.

Please determine whether answers to the question types _Single Choice,_
_Multiple Choice_ and _KPrim_ should be displayed at **random** or in a
specific **order** of your own definition. __

By checking the radio button **Show hints**? your provided hints will be
displayed in case of a wrong answer. You can show hints for _all question
types except free text_.  Please make sure that your settings concerning
feedback and hints are set accordingly for the entire test. You can also
provide **correct solutions** for _all question types_ in case of a wrong
answer. Please make sure that your settings concerning feedback and hints are
set accordingly for the entire test. This is further described in the section
"Hints to Solutions and Feedback in a Test".

The correct solution for the free text question type is only available for the
word export. It will never be shown to your users.

###  On the course level...

...there are further display options. When embedding your test or
questionnaire in a course you will find these options in the tab "Test
configuration" or "Questionnaire configuration." You can limit the number of
attempts to answer a question and determine how often a user may try and take
a test. The maximum to be specified is 20. If you specify for the first
successful attempt to be valid though, a user is no longer able to improve his
test results with more tests. As long as the user fails to pass the test, he
can try as often as specified before.

In order to prohibit a user to access other OpenOlat functions during a test,
you can use the option "Display only module, hide LMS". OpenOlat will be
hidden during the test and only be visible again after closing or completing
the test. If you plan to forbid the menu navigation, one question after the
other will automatically appear; the person taking your test will not be able
to navigate to another question. To display the menu navigation is still
possible; just use the option "Display menu navigation." You can also allow
users to make personal notes during a test. However, after that test those
notes will no longer be available. When terminating a test no results will be
saved; when pausing all answers sent so far will be saved.

If you pause in a test with time limit it can very well be that your time is
up when trying to continue.

If persons taking your test should see their results immediately after
completing it select the option "Show results after completing a test."
Results can also be displayed on your course's homepage. When choosing this
option you can additionally indicate when those results should be made public.
You can further determine how detailed your display should be.

 Layout parameters in detail

By means of this field you can decide how a Test shall be displayed in the
ongoing course.

 **Limit the number of attempts:** Check this box to limit the number of
attempts and indicate how often this test may be taken by your users. The max
value to be indicated in the field "Maximum number of attempts" is 20. (only
available for test)

 **First successful attempt counts:** Check this box if participants should
not be able to improve valid test scores with further attempts. (only
available for test)

 **Display only module, hide LMS:** Check this box if you do not want your
participants to be able to access OpenOlat during a test. While the module
module takes up the whole of the browser window, access to OpenOlat during the
test is prohibited.

 **Show menu navigation :** Check this box if the navigation menu should be
displayed at all.

 **Allow menu navigation :** Then you have the possibility to determine if
navigating should be allowed. Check the box to activate the menu navigation.

 **Menu layout:** You can determine if "All questions" or "Only section
titles" should be displayed in the menu.

 **Clustering of questions:** You have the possibility to choose if each
question should be shown on a single page or if questions of one section
should be displayed together on a single page.

 **Show question title:** Check this box if you do not want your participant
to see the questions' titles.

 **Sort answers alphabetically:** Check this box if you'd like to have your
answers to be sorted alphabetically. This means that in front of the first
answer there is the letter A, in front of the second one the letter B, in
front of the third one the letter C, etc.

 **Personal notes:** Check this box to offer your course participants a field
for personal notes. Please keep in mind that the content of this field will
only be visible for course participants and only during your test. After
taking that test these notes will no longer be available.

 **Show number of questions in test:** Check this box to show your course
participants the number of questions. (not available for questionnaire)

 **Show score in test:** Check this box if you want your course participants
to know their present score while answering your questions. (not available for
questionnaire)

 **Allow to cancel:** Check this box to allow your course participants to
cancel a test without saving the answers already given.

 **Allow to suspend:** Check this box to allow your participants to interrupt
a test. All given answers will be saved in order to be able to continue taking
that test later on.

If you have set a time limit for answering time will keep running despite any
interruption.

 **Show score on test homepage:** Check this box if your course participants
should see their scores. (not available for questionnaire)

 **Show results on test homepage:** Check this box if your course participants
should see their results on the test's home page after taking that test, thus
allowing permanent access. You can determine if test results should be
available right after taking that test or afterwards at a certain date of your
own choice. (not available for questionnaire)

 **Show results after test has been submitted:** Check this box if your course
participants should immediately see their results after taking a test. (not
available for questionnaire)

 **Overview results:** If you want to show test results right after a test or
on that test's home page you can determine how much you want to go into
detail. (not available for questionnaire)

  * By selecting "Compact (without solutions)" any achieved score as well as the maximum score will be displayed.
  * By selecting "Section abstract (without solutions)" any achieved score as well the maximum score will be displayed for the entire test as well as for every single section.
  * By selecting "In detail (with solutions)" your correct answers will be displayed as well as the ones the participant has selected.

  

## Export to Word

Tests and questionnaires created in OpenOlat can be exported as a Word file.
Click "Export as Word file" in the editor tools in the test editor in order to
download the test or questionnaire as .zip-file. The file contains two files
in the MS .docx format, one containing only the test questions, while the
other contains questions and answers. The exported files contain important
additional information such as the score, thus enabling you to use the test
document directly for e.g. offline testing.

## Modifications of Embedded Tests or Questionnaires

As soon as a test or questionnaire is embedded in a course you have only
limited possibility to make modifications. For more information please go to
"Using Editors During Course Operation".

  1. [OpenOlat 16.1 User Manual](../OO161EN.html)
  2. [Seiten](https://confluence.openolat.org/collector/pages.action?key=OO161EN)
  3. **…**
  4. [OpenOlat 16.1 User Manual](OpenOLAT+16.1+User+Manual.html)
  5. [Creating Questionnaires](Creating+Questionnaires.html)
  6. [Form editor (Questionnaire editor)](../../pages/viewpage.action%EF%B9%96pageId=108600747.html)
  7. [Old Questionnaire Editor QTI 1.2](Old+Questionnaire+Editor+QTI+1.2.html)

Sie sind nicht angemeldet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit anonym markiert. Sie
sollten sich
[anmelden](https://confluence.openolat.org/login.action?os_destination=%2Fdisplay%2FOO161EN%2FOld%2BQuestionnaire%2BEditor%2BQTI%2B1.2),
wenn Sie bereits über ein Konto verfügen.

search

attachments

weblink

advanced

image-effects

image-attributes

  * Absatz
    * Absatz
    * Überschrift 1
    * Überschrift 2
    * Überschrift 3
    * Überschrift 4
    * Überschrift 5
    * Überschrift 6
    * Vorformatiert
    * Zitat

  * Fett
  * Kursiv
  * Unterstreichen
  * Farbauswahl

Weitere Farben

    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  

  * Formate

    * Durchgestrichen 
    * Tiefgestellt 
    * Hochgestellt 
    * Festbreitenschriftart 

    * Formatierung zurücksetzen 

  * Aufzählung
  * Nummerierte Liste

  * Aufgabenliste

  * Einzug verkleinern
  * Einzug vergrößern

  * Linksbündig ausrichten
  * Zentriert ausrichten
  * Rechtsbündig ausrichten

  * Seitenlayout

  * Verknüpfung

  * Tabelle

  * Einfügen

Inhalt einfügen

    * Dateien und Bilder 
    * Verknüpfung 
    * Markup 
    * Horizontale Trennlinie einfügen 
    * Aufgabenliste 
    * Datum 
    * Emoticon 
    * Sonderzeichen 
Makro einfügen

    * Benutzererwähnung 
    * Jira-Vorgang/-Filter 
    * Info 
    * Status 
    * Galerie 
    * Inhalt 

    * Andere Makros 

  * Seitenlayout
    * Kein Layout
    * Zweispaltig (einfach)
    * Zweispaltig (einfach, linke Randleiste)
    * Zweispaltig (einfach, rechte Randleiste)
    * Dreispaltig (einfach)
    * Zweispaltig
    * Zweispaltig (linke Randleiste)
    * Zweispaltig (rechte Randleiste)
    * Dreispaltig
    * Dreispaltig (Randleisten links und rechts)

  * Rückgängig
  * Wiederholen

  * Suchen/Ersetzen

  * Hilfe für Tastenkombinationen

Sie sind nicht angemeldet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit anonym markiert. Sie
sollten sich
[anmelden](https://confluence.openolat.org/login.action?os_destination=%2Fdisplay%2FOO161EN%2FOld%2BQuestionnaire%2BEditor%2BQTI%2B1.2),
wenn Sie bereits über ein Konto verfügen.

Diese Seite wird auch von  bearbeitet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit seinen/ihren
zusammengeführt, wenn Sie speichern.



Bearbeiten

Vorschau

Speichern

Schließen

