#  [Questionnaires in courses](Questionnaires+in+courses.html)

## Course element Survey

In order to use questionnaires or surveys, they have to be integrated into an
OpenOlat course. For this purpose, the course element "Survey" has to be added
in the course editor and either an already existing learning resource "Form"
(formerly survey) has to be integrated or a new form has to be created (see
also [4 steps to your questionnaire](4+steps+to+your+Questionnaire.html)).

![](../../download/attachments/590936/insert_course_elements_survey.png%EF%B9%96version=1&modificationDate=1621780876000&api=v2.jpg)

It can then be defined who can participate in the survey and who can see the
results of the survey. The following options can be selected:

Participation:

  * the owners of the course
  * the coaches of the course
  * the participants of the course: All persons registered in the role "Participants" in the course
  * guests: Persons without OpenOlat Account

If the advanced configuration is activated, further settings can be made, e.g.
certain periods of participation for certain roles and participation for
certain groups can be defined.

Also the results can be released for all these groups and linked to a start
and end date in the advanced configuration.

By default all 4 options are activated so that all mentioned groups can fill
in the questionnaire as well as see the results. If you do not want this,
uncheck the corresponding boxes.

From the learner's view, the survey is directly visible when it calls up the
survey in the left-hand navigation.

![](../../download/attachments/108600715/survey2_EN.png)

The survey can only be completed once and cannot be changed after it has been
sent. If you do not want to send the questionnaire directly, you can use the
"Save as" option.

  

## Survey results

The results of a survey are presented in the course run as follows and are
identical for all persons who can view the results. In addition, course owners
can also "reset" a completed questionnaire. In this case, all questionnaires
already submitted will be deleted.

  

The following evaluation tabs are available:

Overview| Here you can find out how many people filled out the questionnaire,
the submission period and the processing time. Depending on the type of
question, other key figures may also be listed.  
---|---  
Tables| Here you can see the individual questions and answers as well as
further statistical evaluations at Rubrics. Free texts can also be downloaded
as Excel tables.  
Diagrams| The Diagrams tab shows a graphical representation of the individual
questions and answers.  
Individual questionnaires| Here one has access to the entire filled out,
anonymous questionnaires of individual persons.  
  
  

Furthermore, the contents of all 4 tabs can also be printed out or downloaded
as an Excel table or as a PDF version. A reset can be achieved by clicking on
the 3-dots.

The same evaluation can also be found in the menu "Administration" -> "Survey
statistics". Only a reset is not possible here.

Another way to save the results is via the menu "Data Archiving" -> "Surveys".
This is the same file as under "Export" in the course run.

If a questionnaire is integrated into a course as a survey, the questionnaire
can be changed in the course to a limited extent using the "Edit" button.
Texts can be changed but individual blocks can no longer be moved or new areas
created or deleted. The weighting of a category can still be changed.

  

  1. [OpenOlat 16.1 User Manual](../OO161EN.html)
  2. [Seiten](https://confluence.openolat.org/collector/pages.action?key=OO161EN)
  3. [OpenOlat 16.1 User Manual](OpenOLAT+16.1+User+Manual.html)
  4. [Creating Questionnaires](Creating+Questionnaires.html)
  5. [Questionnaires in courses](Questionnaires+in+courses.html)

Sie sind nicht angemeldet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit anonym markiert. Sie
sollten sich
[anmelden](https://confluence.openolat.org/login.action?os_destination=%2Fdisplay%2FOO161EN%2FQuestionnaires%2Bin%2Bcourses),
wenn Sie bereits über ein Konto verfügen.

search

attachments

weblink

advanced

image-effects

image-attributes

  * Absatz
    * Absatz
    * Überschrift 1
    * Überschrift 2
    * Überschrift 3
    * Überschrift 4
    * Überschrift 5
    * Überschrift 6
    * Vorformatiert
    * Zitat

  * Fett
  * Kursiv
  * Unterstreichen
  * Farbauswahl

Weitere Farben

    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  
    *  

  * Formate

    * Durchgestrichen 
    * Tiefgestellt 
    * Hochgestellt 
    * Festbreitenschriftart 

    * Formatierung zurücksetzen 

  * Aufzählung
  * Nummerierte Liste

  * Aufgabenliste

  * Einzug verkleinern
  * Einzug vergrößern

  * Linksbündig ausrichten
  * Zentriert ausrichten
  * Rechtsbündig ausrichten

  * Seitenlayout

  * Verknüpfung

  * Tabelle

  * Einfügen

Inhalt einfügen

    * Dateien und Bilder 
    * Verknüpfung 
    * Markup 
    * Horizontale Trennlinie einfügen 
    * Aufgabenliste 
    * Datum 
    * Emoticon 
    * Sonderzeichen 
Makro einfügen

    * Benutzererwähnung 
    * Jira-Vorgang/-Filter 
    * Info 
    * Status 
    * Galerie 
    * Inhalt 

    * Andere Makros 

  * Seitenlayout
    * Kein Layout
    * Zweispaltig (einfach)
    * Zweispaltig (einfach, linke Randleiste)
    * Zweispaltig (einfach, rechte Randleiste)
    * Dreispaltig (einfach)
    * Zweispaltig
    * Zweispaltig (linke Randleiste)
    * Zweispaltig (rechte Randleiste)
    * Dreispaltig
    * Dreispaltig (Randleisten links und rechts)

  * Rückgängig
  * Wiederholen

  * Suchen/Ersetzen

  * Hilfe für Tastenkombinationen

Sie sind nicht angemeldet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit anonym markiert. Sie
sollten sich
[anmelden](https://confluence.openolat.org/login.action?os_destination=%2Fdisplay%2FOO161EN%2FQuestionnaires%2Bin%2Bcourses),
wenn Sie bereits über ein Konto verfügen.

Diese Seite wird auch von  bearbeitet. Ihre Änderungen werden mit seinen/ihren
zusammengeführt, wenn Sie speichern.



Bearbeiten

Vorschau

Speichern

Schließen

