# Create Groups

Groups can generally be created in the "Groups" tab. In addition, it is also
possible to create groups within courses.

## Create Groups in the menu item Groups

The menu item "Groups" on top in the main navigation is your starting point
for creating a group. Click the button and enter a name for your group.
Determine the maximum numbers of participants and save your settings.

## Creating groups - Options

### Group Names

You have to provide your group with a name. You can choose any name including
symbols and numerals. The group's name appears in the overview of your group
as well as in the navigation. When creating groups though please mind to
choose appropriate group names. OpenOlat users will appreciate to be able to
draw conclusions from group names regarding the purpose of the group. You
could e.g. select the name "ParticipantsSocialPolicy" instead of just
"Participants." Or you could add your initials or a date. All groups can be
published by configuring a booking method - you should therefore aim for a
distinct, unique group name.

### Description

You can optionally provide your group with further details. It will appear on
your overview page when starting your group.

!!! check

    As the description can also be displayed as a column in the overview of the groups
    it is recommended to use only short descriptions. Longer
    texts should rather be provided via the [Group tool](Using_Group_Tools.en.md)
    "Information to members".


### Number of Participants

When creating a group or later in the group administration there is the option
to limit the number of participants; you can determine how many members your
group should have. If the planned number of participants is exceeded, your
course participants will receive a notification that there are no more
vacancies. If you leave this field empty, your group will be open to any
number of participants.

### Waiting list

If you want to limit the number of participants you can nevertheless add a
waiting list to your group. With an activated waiting list, potential members
can enter their names on that list in case the limit is exceeded. If there are
members leaving the group or if the group coach cancels some previous
registrations, persons on the waiting list will move up automatically if the
option " **Moving up automatically** " has been selected. Here you can
determine if users on your waiting list shall automatically be transferred to
your group whenever there are vacancies. The main criterion here is the date
of registration: the first one on the waiting list will be the one to move
into your group.

OpenOlat Autoren können kursspezifische Gruppen auch direkt innerhalb von
Kursen erstellen

## Creating groups for courses

If you wish to create a group associated with a course, there are two more
methods to create a group in addition to the one mentioned above:

  * In the course, you will find the settings for member management in the drop-down menu "Administration" in the upper left corner. There you can create new groups or add existing groups to the course.
  * Learning areas to subsume several course associated groups are created with the "[Learning areas](../course_create/Using_additional_Course_Editor_Tools.md#UsingadditionalCourseEditorTools-_lernbereich)“ tool, which you will also find in the course tools. The menu item "Groups" in the members management also allows you to edit all linked groups, add new members, configure collaborative tools or even delete groups.
  * In the course editor: When configuring the registration element or when using the tabs "Visibility" and "Access" you can create groups directly. However, it is not possible to add members or to activate collaborative tools. To do that, either navigate to the members management, or open the relevant group in a separate tab.