# Using Group Tools

As soon as the owner has provided the group with tools group members will see
the following items in the group menu:

![](assets/infomessage.png)

| Information*| Depending on the configuration group coaches as well as group
participants can create messages.  
---|---|---  
  
![](assets/calendar.png)

| Calendar*| Group events should be managed via the group calendar. According
to the configuration you will hold the write permission or the permission to
read only. Events can be connected to linked courses, the library documents
and external links once they have been created.  
  
![](assets/course.png)

| Course| A table overview of all linked courses is available here. Clicking
on a course name opens the corresponding course in a new tab. If the group is
not linked to a course, the display is omitted.  
  
![](assets/group.png)

| Members| Here you will see a list containing all group participants and/or
its coaches if activated. Depending on the settings, the waiting list might be
visible too. Depending on the configuration the list can be downloaded and
printed and the members can send emails.  
  
![](assets/contact.png)

| E-Mail| Send all group owners or participants an e-mail.  
  
![](assets/folder.png)

| Folder*| Exchange documents with other group members. Files can be uploaded
or created. Further structuring with subordination is also possible.  
  
![](assets/forum.png)

| Forum*| Here you can discuss with other group members.  
  
![](assets/chat_icon.png)

| Chat| You will see who else is present in the group chat. Enter the chat
room to communicate with others in real time.  
  
![](assets/wiki.png)

| Wiki*| Use a Wiki to jointly create learning content.  
  
![](assets/portfolio_434343_64.png)

| Portfolio| Use a portfolio to jointly create a binder or add entries.  
  
![](assets/openmeetings.png)

| OpenMeetings| Use OpenMeetings for online communication and collaboration in
virtual classrooms.  
  
![](assets/openmeetings.png)

| BigBlueButton|

Use BigBlueButton for online communication and collaboration in virtual
classrooms. If the room templates are approved, both group moderators and
group members can create new meetings for shared online sessions. In the group
tool, the recordings are also available for further access after the meeting
ends.

The functionality is described in the [course element
BigBlueButton](Course+element+BigBlueButton.html).  
  
![](assets/openmeetings.png)

| Microsoft Teams| Use MS Teams for online communication and collaboration in
virtual spaces. With appropriate configuration by the group coach, both group
coaches and group members can create new meetings for joint online session.  
  
* The tools marked with an asterisk can be subscribed to, so that you are quickly informed about changes.

  

Virtual classrooms

Depending on the configuration by the OpenOlat Administrator, different
virtual classrooms are available as group tools.

