# Updating from a previous version

This guide has been designed with our [Installation Guide](installGuide.md) in mind. You should think about what data to backup if you didn't use those guides. _A backup is mandatory!_

It is normally no problem to skip some (major/minor) versions; an upgrade from 15.0.0 to 15.5.5 should work as well as an upgrade from 15.2.0 to 16.1.1, it will simply take more time to finish. 

## Assumptions
- User is openolat
- Homedirectory is `/home/openolat`
- Datadirectory is `~/olatdata`
- Working directory is `~/webapp` (which is a symlink to `~/openolat-x.x.x` or `~/openolat_xxx`)
- Logfile directory `~/logs`
- Additional configurations are below `~/bin`, `~/conf`, `~/lib`

## Update procedure

Updating OpenOlat is gernally very simple: 

1. stop tomcat
2. link new release
3. start tomcat

In a standard configuration all necessary database modifications will be prerfomed automatically during the tomcat startup. The first start of a new release might take some time as some migration or upgrading code might run. 

Follow the steps in detail: 

### Preparation

1. Stop Tomcat (`~/stop`)
2. Backup
	- your `olatdata` directory
	- make a database dump
3. Download the new `openolat_xxx.war` from [https://www.openolat.com/releases/](https://www.openolat.com/releases/) to your `~/downloads` directory
4. Extract the `openolat_xxx.war` to `~/openolat-x.x.x`  
	`unzip -d ~/openolat-x.x.x ~/downloads/openolat_xxx.war`
5. Remove link from last version to webapp  
	`rm ~/webapp`
6. Create symlink from new version to webapp 
	`ln -s ~/openolat-x.x.x ~/webapp`
7. If you have a custom theme, take care of updating it 
	`~/olatdata/customizing/themes/*`

### Version specific update steps
- If updating from lower than OpenOlat 14.0, you need to perform additional steps to [update to log4j2](#log4j2) 
- If updating from lower than OpenOlat 15.3, you need to [update your infrastructure to Tomcat 9 and Java 11](#java11). It is also mandatory that you perform the update to 15.3 before you continue updating to a more recent version. See [Updating from older versions](#oldversions) instructions. 

### Update

1. Start tomcat (`~/start`) and look at
	- Tomcat log: `tail -f ~/logs/catalina.out`
	- OpenOlat log: `tail -f ~/logs/olat.log`    
	- _First startup might take a while because of file and database upgrades_ 
	- _Do NOT shutdown until OpenOlat did the initial startup!_
	- Look at the upgrades file and check if upgrade was successfull (set to `true`):    
		`cat ~/olatdata/system/installed_database_upgrades.xml`
		`cat ~/olatdata/system/installed_upgrades.xml`		
2. Let everybody know you just updated to the newest version of OpenOlat x.x.x (twitter, facebook etc)

3. Have a drink 🍺 and celebrate, but do so responsibly! ;-)


## Special instructions

### log4j2
If you are upgrading from any version lower than 14.x.x to a version 14.x.x or higher, you will need to also upgrade from `log4j` to `log4j2`. 

Here is an example for a `log4j2.xml`. Adapt it to your needs.

Create the file `~/lib/log4j2.xml` containing the following and adapt it to your file structure and needs.

	<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
	<Configuration status="WARN">
	   <Appenders>
	       <RollingFile name="RollingFile" fileName="/home/openolat/logs/olat.log"
	           filePattern="/home/openolat/logs/olat.log.%d{yyyy-MM-dd}">
	           <PatternLayout
	                   pattern="%d{yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%t] %-5level %marker %c{1} ^%%^ I%X{ref}-J%sn ^%%^ %logger{36} ^%%^ %X{identityKey} ^%%^  %X{ip} ^%%^ %X{referer} ^%%^ %X{userAgent} ^%%^ %msg%ex{full,separator( )}%n" />
	           <Policies>
	               <TimeBasedTriggeringPolicy interval="1" />
	           </Policies>
	       </RollingFile>
	   </Appenders>
	   <Loggers>
	       <Logger name="org.apache.commons.httpclient" additivity="false" level="warn">
	           <AppenderRef ref="RollingFile" />
	       </Logger>
	       <Logger name="org.apache.pdfbox" additivity="false" level="fatal">
	           <AppenderRef ref="RollingFile" />
	       </Logger>
	       <Logger name="org.apache.fontbox" additivity="false" level="fatal">
	           <AppenderRef ref="RollingFile" />
	       </Logger>
	       <Logger name="org.hibernate.engine.internal.StatisticalLoggingSessionEventListener" additivity="false" level="fatal">
	           <AppenderRef ref="RollingFile" />
	       </Logger>
	       <!-- Change the level to debug to see the SQL statements generated by Hibernate -->
	       <Logger name="org.hibernate.SQL" additivity="false" level="fatal">
	           <AppenderRef ref="RollingFile" />
	       </Logger>
	       <Logger name="org.hibernate.type.descriptor.sql.BasicBinder" additivity="false" level="fatal">
	           <AppenderRef ref="RollingFile" />
	       </Logger>
	       <Root level="info">
	           <AppenderRef ref="RollingFile" />
	       </Root>
	   </Loggers>
	</Configuration>


### Tomcat 9 and Java 11 {id=java11}
If you are upgrading from any version lower than 15.3.x to a version 15.3.x or higher, you will need to also upgrade to Tomcat 9 and Java 11. Additionally, remove the following line from your `~/bin/setenv.sh`:

	-Djava.endorsed.dirs=./common/endorsed                 \

## Troubleshooting

### Updating from older versions {id=oldversions}

If you have a very old system it is generally a good advice to update in steps: 

- lower than version 10: update first to version 10
- from version 10.0 it is safe to update straight to 15.3.x   
  _Note that in version 15.4 all old upgraders have been removed. Thus, when updating from a version olther than 15.3 it is mandatory to install 15.3 before you continue with the more recent versions._ 
- from version 15.3 it is safe to update straight to the newest OpenOlat version
