#Release notes 15.5

With OpenOlat 16.1 we release our next major release.

With the new **LTI 1.3 integration (BETA stage!)**, for example, h5p content from h5p.com or also groups and courses from OpenOlat can be released for an LTI 1.3-capable third-party system. New functions in the learning resource form (formerly survey) and a matching new form course module with automatic confirmation for participants support for example registration processes. The task module benefits from activated document editors, allowing participants to edit the assignment directly in the browser, and coaches to correct documents online and provide feedback. The correction of tests is possible directly on the course element and a bulk action facilitates the correction of scores (e.g. in case of incorrect questions). Via extended user permissions for learning path course elements, user rights can be defined per role, group or user. In the exam course wizard, an exam mode can also be configured in a basic way. In ePortfolio, the use of entries in multiple folders is supported. Portfolio entries can also be independently keyworded with competencies, a collected display is available in the profile in the competency overview. Numerous other innovations and improved usability for tables complete this release.

Overall more than 100 new features and improvements have been added to OpenOlat since release 15.4 and many processes have been improved. Here, you can find the most important new features and changes. In addition to these improvements, more than 95 bugs have been fixed. The complete list of changes for 15.4 – 15.4.7 can be found here.