# Course Element: Video

##
![](assets/video_64_0_434343_none.png)  

Go to the course editor and add the course element "Video" to your course.

![](assets/CourseElement_Video_EN.png)
![](assets/Video_einbinden_EN.png)

  

In the tab "Learning content" just click on "Select or import video" to assign
a video to your course element. Click on "Import" to upload a new video or
select an existing video from your entries. Videos can either be imported to
the course editor or by means of the "Authoring" site.  For further
information please go to the chapter "Actions in the 'Authoring' section",
section
["Import"](Actions+in+the+'Authoring'+section.html#Actionsinthe'Authoring'section-
_importieren). If you have not selected a video yet the message _No video
selected_ will appear in the title **Selected video**.

After adding your video its title will be displayed as a link. Follow this
link to get to the preview. In order to change the assignment of your video
you have to click on "Replace Video" in the tab "Learning content" before
selecting another video.

Once you have selected or imported a video, the "Options" section appears.
Here you can define whether viewers are allowed to comment and/or rate the
video and whether the video should be started automatically or not. You can
also enter a description for the video. This will then appear below the video.
You can either add your _own description_ in the appearing input field, use
the _description of the learning resource_ from its corresponding [_info
page_](../catalog/Info_page.md), or omit the description completely.

  

In learning path courses, the tab "Learning path" can also be used to define
as a completion criterion whether learners have to finish watching the video
(95%) for the course element to be considered completed.

![](assets/eingebundenes_video.png)

In addition, all videos created in OpenOlat as learning resources and
integrated into the course can be further configured. This is done directly in
the learning resource in the author area. Here, for example, a start image
(poster) can be defined, chapter markers can be set or quiz questions can be
added. The individual options are explained in the chapter "[Learning
Resource: Video](Learning_resource_Video.md)".

Use the course element "Video" to include videos in MPEG-4 format (.mp4) in
your course. Your video has to be created externally.

